---
layout: post
title:  "Basic Use: A Guide"
date:   2016-04-24 21:09:57
description: In nec purus quis felis tincidunt dictum nec sagittis diam. Donec non est ornare, viverra tortor non, ornare arcu. In blandit leo eget mi vestibulum, id viverra magna auctor. Proin at sem urna. Suspendisse rutrum pharetra nulla. Vestibulum laoreet placerat semper. Curabitur at mauris sem.
image: "/basic-use-a-guide/ideology.jpg"
categories: CategoryOne
---

If this is your first time using Jekyll, don't be scared! Installing and setting up this particular theme is very, very simple. I'll walk you through it.

## Installation
For now, installation of this theme isn't available through the command line or package managers. Instead, use the Git Repo to grab what you need through a .zip file.

1. Fork and Star the [repo][Artist Theme Repo]
2. Download the .zip and save it to your directory
3. Install Jekyll
4. (Optional) Install Gulp - you certainly don't need it

#### Installing Jekyll
Open the terminal and enter the following command: `gem install jekyll`. Mac users may need to use `sudo`.

For a full Jekyll installation guide, reference the official [Jekyll Docs][Jekyll Docs].

- - -

## Using Jekyll: Servers and Posts

#### Launching a Local Jekyll Server

Using the terminal navigate to your directory then enter the command: `jekyll serve` to start a local server. In your browser enter the local address that Jekyll gives you.

#### Making Posts

To make a new post, create a new `.md` file following this file structure `2020-12-31-post-title.md` within the `_posts` directory. Pay close attention to the head matter at the top of each post. If it's incorrect your Jekyll server will throw errors.

#### Customizing

Change your primary and accent colors inside `assets/css/1-base/_vars.sass` by changing the `$primary` and `$accent-color` variables for site-wide changes.

[Jekyll Docs]: http://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/
[Artist Theme Repo]: https://github.com/ninapetrop/Artist-Theme
